Review all changes incl. MVP (#4)
exasol/snowflake-virtual-schema: doc/user_guide/snowflake_user_guide.md

# Snowflake SQL Dialect User Guide

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/) operates a platform that provides data storage via cloud computing and allows for data analysis.

> ## Uploading the JDBC Driver to Exasol BucketFS

Author: Could you please add a sentence explaining, why uploading something to somewhere is required?
Maybe a section like "Installation" would help?
Proposal add a preview about the required steps, e.g. 1. upload driver, 2. .... and add "see the following sections for details".

Reviewer: This documentation is quasi identical to that of the other VS, so I'd rather not reinvent the wheel here.

1. Download the [SnowflakeJDBC driver](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc-download).

> 2. Upload the driver to BucketFS, see [BucketFS documentation](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/administration/on-premise/bucketfs/accessfiles.htm).
> 
>    Hint: Put the driver into folder `default/drivers/jdbc/` to register it for [ExaLoader](#registering-the-jdbc-driver-for-exaloader), too.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Upload the driver to BucketFS under `default/drivers/jdbc/snowflake/`, see [BucketFS documentation](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/administration/on-premise/bucketfs/accessfiles.htm).
```

Reviewer: Again, as stated above. Let's not reinvent the wheel here, at this point in time.

## Registering the JDBC driver for ExaLoader

In order to enable the ExaLoader to fetch data from the external database you must register the driver for ExaLoader as described in the [Installation procedure for JDBC drivers](https://github.com/exasol/docker-db/#installing-custom-jdbc-drivers).

> 1. ExaLoader expects the driver in BucketFS folder `default/drivers/jdbc`.<br />
>    If you uploaded the driver for UDF to a different folder, then you need to [upload](#uploading-the-jdbc-driver-to-exasol-bucketfs) the driver again.
> 2. Additionally, you need to create file `settings.cfg` and [upload](#uploading-the-jdbc-driver-to-exasol-bucketfs) it to the same folder in BucketFS. Contents below:

Author: ```suggestion
Create file `settings.cfg` and [upload](#uploading-the-jdbc-driver-to-exasol-bucketfs) it to folder `default/drivers/jdbc/snowflake/` in BucketFS, too. Contents below:
```

Reviewer: Not going to touch this.

```
DRIVERNAME=SNOWFLAKE_JDBC_DRIVER
JAR=<jar file containing the jdbc driver>
DRIVERMAIN=net.snowflake.client.jdbc.SnowflakeDriver
PREFIX=jdbc:snowflake:
FETCHSIZE=100000
INSERTSIZE=-1
NOSECURITY=YES

```

> Make sure there's a newline at the end of the `settings.cfg` file, as shown above, or it will not be properly read out, the EXALoader will display an error message.

Author: ```suggestion
Make sure there's an empty line at the end of the `settings.cfg` file, as shown above, or it will not be properly read out, the EXALoader will display an error message.
```

Reviewer: Ok, will change this

| Variable                                | Description                      |
|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| `<jar file containing the jdbc driver>` | E.g. `snowflake-jdbc-3.16.1.jar` |

## Installing the Adapter Script

[Upload](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/administration/on-premise/bucketfs/accessfiles.htm) the latest available release of [Snowflake Virtual Schema JDBC Adapter](https://github.com/exasol/snowflake-virtual-schema/releases) to Bucket FS.

Then create a schema to hold the adapter script.

```sql
CREATE SCHEMA ADAPTER;
```

The SQL statement below creates the adapter script, defines the Java class that serves as entry point and tells the UDF framework where to find the libraries (JAR files) for Virtual Schema and database driver.

```sql
--/
CREATE OR REPLACE JAVA ADAPTER SCRIPT ADAPTER.SNOWFLAKE_JDBC_ADAPTER AS
  %scriptclass com.exasol.adapter.RequestDispatcher;
  %jar /buckets/<BFS service>/<bucket>/virtual-schema-dist-12.0.0-snowflake-0.1.0.jar;

>   %jar /buckets/<BFS service>/<bucket>/drivers/jdbc/snowflake-jdbc-<snowflake-driver-version>.jar;

Author: ```suggestion
  %jar /buckets/<BFS service>/<bucket>/drivers/jdbc/snowflake/snowflake-jdbc-<snowflake-driver-version>.jar;
```

Reviewer: That's not how it works if you follow the steps above. So won't change this.

/
```

## Defining a Named Connection

Define the connection to the Snowflake database as shown below. We recommend using TLS to secure the connection.

> 

Author: I couldn't find TLS in the connection. If using TLS is the default, then I propose to remove the sentence.

```suggestion
Define the connection to the Snowflake database as shown below.
```

Reviewer: Thought I did this but apparently I didn't. I'll remove this.

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE CONNECTION SNOWFLAKE_CONNECTION
TO 'jdbc:snowflake://<account name>.snowflakecomputing.com'
USER '<user>'
IDENTIFIED BY '<password>';
```

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|

> | `<account name` | Account name or 'account identifier' of the Snowflake platform account. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `<account name>` | Account name or 'account identifier' of the Snowflake platform account. |
```

Reviewer: Done

> 

Author: Proposal: Add additional rows to the table explaining  '<user>' and '<password>', and from where to retrieve those or how to configure snowflake in order to use these credentials for a virtual schema.

Reviewer: The detailed explanation is right below the table ...

The account name or account identifier is usually in the form of `xxx-xxx`: 
It is part of the specific login url you get upon registering (e.g.:`igzdtnt-du40000` in `https:// igzdtnt-du40000 .snowflakecomputing.com/`). 
It can also be found under the admin panel in Snowflake. 
For more info see:https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-account-identifier

## Creating a Virtual Schema

> Use the following SQL command in Exasol database to create a Snowflake Virtual Schema 

Author: ```suggestion
Use the following SQL statement in Exasol database to create a Snowflake Virtual Schema 
```

(Make sure to use UPPERCASE for the catalog and schema name):

```sql
CREATE VIRTUAL SCHEMA <virtual schema name>
  USING ADAPTER.SNOWFLAKE_JDBC_ADAPTER
  WITH
  CATALOG_NAME = '<catalog name>'
  SCHEMA_NAME = '<schema name>'
  CONNECTION_NAME = 'SNOWFLAKE_CONNECTION';
```

| Variable                | Description                                                                                         |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `<virtual schema name>` | Name of the virtual schema you want to use.                                                         |
| `<catalog name>`        | Name of the catalog, usally equivalent to the name of the Snowflake database. Please use UPPERCASE. |
| `<schema name>`         | Name of the database schema you want to use in the Snowflake database. Please use UPPERCASE.        |

> For additional parameters coming from the base library see also [Adapter Properties for JDBC-Based Virtual Schemas](https://github.com/exasol/virtual-schema-common-jdbc#adapter-properties-for-jdbc-based-virtual-schemas).

Author: ```suggestion
For additional parameters see also [Adapter Properties for JDBC-Based Virtual Schemas](https://github.com/exasol/virtual-schema-common-jdbc#adapter-properties-for-jdbc-based-virtual-schemas).
```

Reviewer: That's better, I agree.

| POINT                    | ✓            | VARCHAR(2000000)           |                                                                                                                                                  |
| POLYGON                  | ✓            | VARCHAR(2000000)           |                                                                                                                                                  |
| REAL                     | ✓            | DOUBLE                     |                                                                                                                                                  |
| SMALLINT                 | ✓            | DECIMAL(5,0)               |                                                                                                                                                  |
| SMALLSERIAL              | ? (untested) |                            |                                                                                                                                                  |

> | SERIAL                   | ? (untested) |                            |                                                                                                                                                  |

Author: ```suggestion
| SMALLSERIAL              | - | | (unsupported) | 
| SERIAL                          | - | | (unsupported) |
```

Reviewer: I'll revise this whole table.

Reviewer: Revised.
